
   #[1]iso2mesh: a Matlab/Octave-based mesh generator

Getting Started with iso2mesh

   Despite that iso2mesh provided a rich collection of mesh-related functions,
   such as edge extraction, disconnected surface component extraction etc, the
   core functionalities, i.e. creating volumetric meshes from surfaces or
   binary image stacks, are very straightforward to use. A minimum step to
   perform such tasks will only requires about 3 to 5 lines of matlab code. You
   can find some examples from the sample/ directory. In [2]this page, we
   summarize the overall work-flow of this toolbox.

   To outline a simple meshing session, let's assume you have a 3D image array,
   named "mydata", saved in a file called mydata.mat. Variable mydata can be
   any 3D image, a MRI/CT scan or a simple binary mask produced by your own
   command. Here are the commands you need to produce a volumetric FEM mesh
   from this volume:

 load mydata.mat
 [node,elem,bound]=vol2mesh(mydata>0,1:size(mydata,1),1:size(mydata,2),...
       1:size(mydata,3), 0.1, 100, 1);
 trisurf(bound(:,1:4),node(:,1),node(:,2),node(:,3));

   The first line loads the data to your current session. The second line calls
   an iso2mesh function, 'vol2mesh' to make a volumetric mesh from this data
   array. The first argument, "mydata>0" , is to convert mydata to a binary
   array (by thresholding at 0); the 2nd, 3rd and 4th arguments specify the
   sub-volume from the array to be used for the meshing, in this case, we used
   the full volume; the 5th argument, 0.1, represent the ratio of the surface
   elements being kept during the surface simplification - the smaller this
   number,  the  fewer triangles to represent the object surface; the 6th
   argument,  100,  denotes  the maximum volumetric element volume, which
   essential set the density of the final mesh; the last argument, 1, is a flag
   meaning that we will perform automatic mesh validation & repairing during
   the meshing process, it will be turned off when set to 0; we suggest use 1
   for most of your mesh generation.

   There are 3 outputs from vol2mesh command:
     * node: the node coordinates for the generated volumetric mesh, with
       dimension of NN x 3, with each column being x, y and z, respectively.
     * elem: the tetrahedral element info, with a dimension of NE x 4; each row
       represents an element, and each column are the node indices of each
       corner of the tetrahedron
     * bound: triangular surface element info, with a dimension of NS x 4,;the
       first 3 columns are the node indices of each corner of the triangle, and
       the  last column is a flag to identify its mapping to the original
       surface id.

References

   1. http://iso2mesh.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/index.cgi?action=rss
   2. http://iso2mesh.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/index.cgi?Doc/Workflow
